---
layout: default
---

## Alexis Rose's Growth with the Audience

Schitt’s Creek, a sitcom about a wealthy family losing their money and relocating to a small town, much to their initial disdain, centers largely on the connection between personal growth and building meaningful relationships with others. One of the main characters, Alexis Rose, initially has no interest in the town or connecting with the people in it, and instead focuses on instant gratification to make her time there more bearable in her mind. 

While she is starting to adjust to being in Schitt’s Creek, a local veterinarian, Ted Mullens, takes interest in her and asks her out on a date. Throughout their short-lived relationship, Ted treats her with respect and love, but unfortunately, she does not feel the same. She wants to return to her life of luxury, excitement, and adventure, so she is initially dismissive of her connection with Ted, and decides to split up with him for another character, Mutt, with whom she knows deep down she has no future, but thinks she can have fun with. On the surface, to some people it may seem that Alexis is being selfish, and while there may be selfish motivations to her actions at the time, there is a deeper reasoning behind her decisions. Being given genuine attention and care without other motives is completely new to Alexis given her status and previous lifestyle, so it is unsurprising that the idea of having that now makes her uncomfortable, and she perceives Ted as boring. 

As Alexis becomes more comfortable with her place in town and sees that she has friends who actually care for and support her for who she is, she begins to grow as a person and achieves more than her initial surface level confidence. As she begins to take stock of her life, she realizes she does have real feelings for Ted and gains the courage to tell him how she feels. This is a major milestone for Alexis because she had never been able to be vulnerable before, and she builds up strength to do so through the comfort and support of the friendships she has gained and through strengthening the relationships with her family members. 

Alexis Rose certainly grew in ways beyond her romantic relationship with Ted, such as attending college and taking initiative to start a business, but her perspective on her love life is one of the things that allows the audience to grow with her. As Alexis grows bored with Ted, the audience is inclined to root for her to leave him for Mutt, even though they know Ted is a better person; this is entirely because this romantic dilemma is written through the perspective of Alexis. However, as Alexis becomes enlightened to what matters in life, the audience wants those things for her as well. Alexis Rose’s growth and development into the best version of herself shows the audience that meaningful, lasting relationships help individuals thrive in life, whether the relationship is platonic, familial, or romantic.
